Link Mode Kotlin Docs (#1624)
WalletConnect/walletconnect-docs: docs/appkit/android/core/one-click-auth.mdx

---

> title: One-Click Auth / SIWE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Sign In With Ethereum
```

to keep consistency with Web, Flutter and RN titles

---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

# Sign In With Ethereum

```

> AppKit provides a simple solution for integrating with "Sign In With Ethereum" (SIWE), a form of authentication that enables users to control their digital identity with their Ethereum account. SIWE is a standard also known as EIP-4361.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AppKit provides a simple solution for integrating with "Sign In With Ethereum" (SIWE), a form of authentication that enables users to control their digital identity with their Ethereum account. SIWE is a standard also known as [EIP-4361](https://docs.login.xyz/general-information/siwe-overview/eip-4361).
```

> ### One-Click Auth

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## One-Click Auth
```

One-Click Auth represents a key advancement within WalletConnect v2, streamlining the user authentication process in AppKit by enabling them to seamlessly connect with a wallet and sign a SIWE message with just one click.
Connecting a wallet, proving control of an address with an off-chain signature, authorizing specific actions. These are the kinds of authorizations that can be encoded as "ReCaps". ReCaps are permissions for a specific website or dapp that can be compactly encoded as a long string in the message you sign and translated by any wallet into a straight-forward one-sentence summary. WalletConnect uses permissions expressed as ReCaps to enable a One-Click Authentication.

## Configure your AppKit Client

To integrate SIWE with AppKit, you need to configure your Web3Modal client using `Modal.Model.AuthPayloadParams`, which are required to create a SIWE message for the user to sign:

> ``kotlin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```kotlin
```

 Web3Modal.setAuthRequestParams(authPayloadParams)
```

#### Example of AuthRequestParams

```kotlin
 val authParams = Modal.Model.AuthPayloadParams(
    chains = ["eip155:1", "eip155:137"],
    domain = "yourDappDomain.com",
    uri = "https://yourDappDomain.com/login",
    nonce = //uniqueNonce,
    statement = "I accept the Terms of Service: https://yourDappDomain.com/",
    methods = ["personal_sign", "eth_sendTransaction"],
    resources = null //// Here your dapp may request authorization with ReCaps
)
```

> Configuring your Web3Modal client with Modal.Model.AuthPayloadParams will prioritize authentication requests over regular session proposals. If the wallet supports One-Click Auth, the session will be created and the user will automatically authenticate without needing to send another SIWE request over personal_sign. If the wallet does not support One-Click Auth, it will fall back to the session proposal. In this case, to authenticate the user, you can send another session request to prove address ownership.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring your AppKit client with `Modal.Model.AuthPayloadParams` will prioritize authentication requests over regular session proposals. If the wallet supports One-Click Auth, the session will be created and the user will automatically authenticate without needing to send another SIWE request over `personal_sign`. If the wallet doesn't support One-Click Auth, it will fall back to the session proposal. In this case, to authenticate the user you can send another session request to prove address ownership.
```

Reviewer: not sure about the last part `In this case, to authenticate the user you can send another session request to prove address ownership.` maybe its redundant?

Author: I think it explains how the authentication can work when the wallet doesn't support 1-CA. @glitch-txs wdyt?

Reviewer 2: it depends, does the dev need to implement this fallback? We do this automatically in Web

Author: It's automatic for AppKit

Reviewer 2: maybe

```suggestion
Configuring your Web3Modal client with Modal.Model.AuthPayloadParams will prioritize authentication requests over regular session proposals. If the wallet supports One-Click Auth, the session will be created and the user will automatically authenticate without needing to send another SIWE request over personal_sign. If the wallet does not support One-Click Auth, it will fall back to the session proposal. In this case, to authenticate the user, AppKit will send another session request to prove address ownership.
```

To check whether the user has signed a SIWE message, check `onSessionAuthenticateResponse` callback from `Web3Modal.ModalDelegate`:

```kotlin
fun onSessionAuthenticateResponse(response: Modal.Model.SessionAuthenticateResponse) {
    // Triggered when Dapp receives the session authenticate response from wallet

    if (response is Modal.Model.SessionAuthenticateResponse.Result) {
        if (response.session != null) {
            // Authentication successful, session established
        } else {
            // Authentication successful, but no session created (SIWE-only flow)
        }
    } else {
        // Authentication request was rejected or failed
    }
}
```

> Fallback to SIWE Over Session Request

Reviewer: should this be a title? or a subtitle? like #### Fallback

Author: I copied the structure from Swift so I think it's ok? Unless you feel like having a title is more readable

Reviewer: yes, i think it adds a little bit more of readability

> If the wallet connecting to your dapp does not support 1-Click Auth, the SDK will fallback to the wc_sessionPropose method and create a session with the wallet. Web3Modal will then inform the user that they need to sign a message to prove address ownership. Web3Modal will send a SIWE request to the wallet, and once the wallet responds with a signed message, use onSIWEAuthenticationResponse callback to check the result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the wallet connecting to your dapp does not support One-Click Auth, the SDK will fallback to the `wc_sessionPropose` method and create a session with the wallet. AppKit will then inform the user that they need to sign a message to prove address ownership. AppKit will send a SIWE request to the wallet, and once the wallet responds with a signed message, use `onSIWEAuthenticationResponse` callback to check the result:
```

```kotlin
 override fun onSIWEAuthenticationResponse(response: Modal.Model.SIWEAuthenticateResponse) {
    if (response is Modal.Model.SIWEAuthenticateResponse.Result) {
        // message and signature
    } else {
        //error
    }
}
```

### Link Mode

> The latest release of AppKit supports link mode, a low latency mechanism for transporting 1-click auth requests and session requests over universal links, eliminating the need for a WebSocket connection with the Relay. This significantly enhances the user experience when connecting native dApps to native wallets by reducing the latency associated with networking connections, especially when the user has an unstable internet connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latest release of AppKit supports link mode, a low latency mechanism for transporting One-Click Auth requests and session requests over universal links, eliminating the need for a WebSocket connection with the Relay. This significantly enhances the user experience when connecting native dApps to native wallets by reducing the latency associated with networking connections, especially when the user has an unstable internet connection.
```

Reviewer: Also, we still rely on the socket for some actions like disconnecting. Should we change the `eliminating the need for a WebSocket connection with the Relay` or add more details?

Author: From the context, it's clear to me that it's for auth and session requests. @glitch-txs what's your take? Should we improve it?

Reviewer 2: we could change "eliminating" with "reducing"?

> The latest release of AppKit supports link mode, a low latency mechanism for transporting 1-click auth requests and session requests over universal links, reducing the need for a WebSocket connection with the Relay. This significantly enhances the user experience when connecting native dApps to native wallets by reducing the latency associated with networking connections, especially when the user has an unstable internet connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latest release of AppKit supports link mode, a low latency mechanism for transporting One-Click Auth requests and session requests over universal links, reducing the need for a WebSocket connection with the Relay. This significantly enhances the user experience when connecting native dApps to native wallets by reducing the latency associated with networking connections, especially when the user has an unstable internet connection.
```

```kotlin
 val appMetaData = Core.Model.AppMetaData(
    ...
    appLink = "https://example.com/example_dapp",
    linkMode = true
)

CoreClient.initialize(
   metaData: appMetaData,
    ...
)

Web3Modal.initialize(Modal.Params.Init(core = CoreClient))
```

Once link mode is configured, your dApp will connect and send requests to wallets via app links after receiving proof from the wallet that it also supports link mode.

The wallet will also send responses using app links. Your app needs to pass these responses to the Web3Modal client so it can process them.

```kotlin
Web3Modal.handleDeepLink(url) { error -> 
    //handle error

}
```

Ensure to handle incoming app links in your Activity onCreate method and in onNewIntent callback.

Ensure that your App Link is properly configured in your app's Manifest file with the `autoVerify` set to `true`:

```
<intent-filter android:autoVerify="true">
    <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />

>     <data
>         android:host="your_host"
>         android:scheme="https">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <data android:scheme="https" android:host="your_host" />
```

Reviewer: Also, Android Studio suggested me to separate that data in two.

```
<data android:scheme="https"/>
<data android:host="your_host"/>
```

Author: It's not required

Reviewer: ok! In that case, just close the data tag -> ` />`

</intent-filter>
```

For more information on how to configure app links for your app, refer to the [Android Documentation](https://developer.android.com/training/app-links/verify-android-applinks).

For enabling links to app content check [this](https://developer.android.com/training/app-links/deep-linking) documentation page. 

> For more information on how to interact with other apps using intents, see [Adnroid Intetn Documentation](https://developer.android.com/training/basics/intents)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on how to interact with other apps using intents, see [Android Intent Documentation](https://developer.android.com/training/basics/intents)
```

> For more information on how to interact with other apps using intents, see [Android Intent Documentation](https://developer.android.com/training/basics/intents)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information on how to interact with other apps using intents, see [Android Intent Documentation].(https://developer.android.com/training/basics/intents)
```
